The Joe Rogan experience.
Let's talk about the metaverse cause like, uh,
I'm really fascinated by this decision of Facebook to change the name
of Facebook, to Metta and to the metaphor, which I think people are just gonna,
they're going to like re they're going to realize that
the, this is,
this is a crazy idea that you're going to give your life to some sort of
augmented or virtual reality world.
That's created by a guy who's involved in this company
whose algorithms are sowing the seeds of distrust and hate all.
But now we're going to let him take over what you see and feel
because you're going to have a new company and this new company is going to be
virtually reality based where he's literally, he,
he reenacted a scene from black mirror, which is.
On ironically. I know. And you know what makes me a little sad.
I think that it's going to happen. Yeah.
I think that you and I are of a different generation dude.
I think there are a lot of kids who are growing up in Fortnite world and spend a
lot. And I think the pandemic really accelerated this.
There are a lot of people who lived on the line for the entire pandemic.
And so for people like me and for people like my parents,
not seeing other humans for a long time was actually quite painful and terrible.
Like we actually did want to get out and be with the community and see friends
and do that sort of stuff.
What if you spend your entire life from the time you're a little kid interacting
with screens.
What if those screens are getting increasingly sophisticated so that they are
interacting with you in ways that humans would? What, if you get to be whatever,
like where's society, we were just talking about this,
where you get to be whatever you want to be.
What if there's a world where you actually can be,
and everybody sees you the way you want to be seen.
Would you rather live there where you're like rich and good looking and
everybody likes you,
or would you rather live in the real world where you're disconnected from all of
that? And you end up with like ready player one world. I think.
It's going to happen.
It's as long as it can become indistinguishable from reality,
which will be able to be it's, it's going to take time,
whether it's five years or 10 years, if you go back and look at pong,
which was the first game that I ever saw when I was a child, it's ridiculous.
It's like a white ball that bounces across and you have a straight two bottles.
That's a paddle. And it's the,
it's the dumbest game that you could never convince a child to play today.
They'd be like, get the out of here with that stupid game. I can go play halo.
Right? But back then when I was a child, that was a big deal.
If you extrapolate, if you go,
just go in the future from now what they're available, what they have available.
Now, these insane video graphics, the unreal engine,
and then move yourself 20 years in the future. Yeah,
it's going to be indistinct.
And the AI is getting better and better in terms of being able to imitate human
behavior in terms of being able to innovate on its own and haptic.
Back suits and all these different things and all these video games that they
have that emulate sports.
They're getting so close when you watch these basketball games and the UFC has a
game when you watch these, uh, the, the players, the fighters move around, like,
God, it's so close. It's not quite there, but they're getting better,
better with each iteration. And it's just a matter of time.
What I wonder is if we are innovating ourselves and when it comes to this stuff
before innovating ourselves out of existence as a civilization,
but don't you think that's.
Probably where this goes, no matter.
What, no, I think that, I think then the barbarians come to the gate.
I think that's what happens because the real world still exists.
So if you innovate an entire generation of people and let's just take this on
those baseline demographic level, none of them get married.
None of them have babies and two generations that the same can matter.
You're going to have a good time in the virtual reality.
And then they're going to be no babies to carry this on.
And the only people on earth are going to be religious Jews,
religious Catholics, and religious Muslims. And that's it.
Th the vulnerability lies in the power grid.
The power grid is so vulnerable that if someone just detonated the power grid,
all this stuff stops. And then you have no life. Your life is completely,
you've invested it completely in this augmented world is virtual
world. But this virtual world, all you have to do is pull the plug and it's out.
And it's out for millions of people that it's like the equivalent of dropping a
nuclear bomb on a culture.
I give you really all live inside of a computer system.
Some sort of a.
Yeah. It's virtual reality. Yep. No, that's right. And it's,
and what I fear is that when you do that to a civilization,
it's basically the equivalent of you bringing a wild animal and you put it in a
cage for a long time, and now you can't release it back in the wild.
The right's going to get eaten. What happens to you as a civilization? Right?
What happens if you've taken an entire generation of people told them that their
entire life exists online. They don't have to interact with other humans.
They don't have to interact in human ways with other humans.
And then there's like an entire other earth out there that isn't doing any of
this. Right? And by the way, China is not doing this right. China is banning.
It turns, banning it, trying to say,
you're not allowed to go online certain days of the week. If you're a kid,
right. We're going to ban the kind of stuff that you can see.
So in the long run, which civilization is going to be more durable,
the one that actually understands the vulnerabilities of human nature or the one
that says we're going to use those vulnerabilities to make you feel subjectively
happier. It's I think I'm amazed at the level of conditioning.
Like here's what killed me about the pandemic. Honestly. Like what,
what killed me? The level of conditioning that it took in order to rejigger,
how people think was so low, it shocked the hell out of me.
It really shocked me. And I was talking to my business partner, Jeremy,
boring about this. And early on, depending on me, he was like,
people aren't going to stand for this. Like when they shut everything.
And he's like three months from now, people are going to be losing their minds.
They're going to be out on the streets, protesting to get rid of the masks.
And they're going to be out of ball games again. I was like, that's not right.
I think it'll take a year.
We're like a year and a half in and half the country is still like, oh,
you know what? If this just kind of continues like, all right, I guess like the,
the amount of dependency that was bred by people saying,
just go back to your house. And people will be like,
human beings are really adaptable. And this is something that Bret Weinstein,
Heather hiring and talk about, right? That's our superpower.
We're super duper adaptable.
So we're super adaptable to our own detriment sometimes to our own detriment.
So if we change our social circumstances radically in a way that's unhealthy for
us.
And we are now interacting with technologies that were built to take advantage
of our lizard brain.
Then what happens when there are people who are just not engaging in the same,
they're not playing the same game that we are, right?
We're we're essentially drugging ourselves.
Robert nausea cause the libertarian philosopher, he,
he talks at one point about what he calls the experience machine.
It's the thought experiment. And the experience machine is basically VR.
He's writing this in early 1960s. He says,
what if there was a machine where you could plug into it,
you'd feel the illusion of choice you'd feel as though your choices had some
sort of significance and it would give you the dopamine hit that you get in
regular life. Would you plug into it or would you not?
And his theory was you wouldn't plug into it because you still want to feel like
your life has real-world consequences. But what if everybody is in everybody,
you know, is in that experience machine, then you're the one who gets left out.
If you're not in the real world.
What does real-world? I mean, that's,
that's what the problem is that that analogy was created before
the sophistication of computer systems has reached the point now
where you can look at it two, 20 years from now,
and you kind of get an understanding of where it's going to be when you're,
when you're dealing with what's possible.
Now I don't think you're going to be able to stop people from doing it
because I think it's going to be so overwhelmingly addictive.
You look at how many people are just addicted to looking at their Instagram.
Yep. It's it's simple. Yeah. It's nothing. I mean, it's nothing.
The dopamine hit, you get off of this little phone. It's it's minimal,
but people are completely all in on it.
Yep. And I, I think that what that's going to,
what I do wonder if there's going to be,
and I w I wonder what you think about this.
If there's going to be a bifurcation in the same way,
there has been a bifurcation about so many issues between the people at the top
of sort of the elite spectrum and the rest of the population where the people at
the elite spectrum are making the metaverse,
but their kids aren't actually in the metaverse.
Steve jobs. Didn't let his kid use an.
IPad. Exactly. Like I'm on the internet. My kids are seven, five,
and one they're not allowed to, we don't have the TV on in our house.
My kids don't watch TV. I'm not,
my kids don't get internet access until they're like 18.
Like that is not a thing. I want them,
they can be out of my house and they can get internet.
They're going to do drugs. They're going to be in the street.
It's going to turn tricks. It's going to be a real problem.
That's a pretty wild ride. You took me on there, Joe. That's really upsetting.
That's what I do. Yeah. So that was when we went straight from my kids.
Aren't watching Coco Mellon to they're turning tricks in the streets, turn off.
Florida.
It sounds so cute for what it actually is. You know, it's a terrible thing,
but it sounds like cute. Oh, the turn tricks.
Like you didn't understand English. You'd be like, oh, they're magicians.
You know, like, no, no.
Yeah. But yeah. And I mean, we're going to limit,
but I think that that's one of the stories.
If we're talking about the elite kinda versus everybody else, gap,
maybe everything that gets created.
Is concerned about their children.
Everything, right? I mean, like people,
promulgating technologies and value systems, they don't actually live in.
And then everybody who is watching is like, I will do that.
And then those people themselves don't do it. Watch.
The tire episode for free, only on Spotify.